
# Network Device Logs
Logs generated by network devices capturing events and activities in the network. Used for monitoring, troubleshooting, and enhancing security of the network and organization.
## Log Info & Types
Along with events on the network, logs can also log information about the operational state of the network device and performance metrics of *network interfaces*. Statistics which can be logged about network interfaces include:
- operational state
- link status
- error count
- traffic utilization
- interface flapping
- administrative privileges
- security events
These types of stats help professionals understand *the health and performance* of network devices and their interfaces. This info can be used for troubleshooting, optimizing resources, and even identifying potential security issues.
### Traffic logs
These document the flow of data through the network. They usually include details about *source and destination [IP-addresses](../../PNPT/PEH/networking/IP-addresses.md)*, [ports](routing/ports.md), and protocols used. They can be used to establish network *usage patterns*, identifying bandwidth issues, or detecting malicious/unusual behavior.
### Audit logs
These logs *track user activity and changes* made to network configurations. They are  important *for maintaining compliance & regulatory standards*. They are designed to provide a comprehensive record of who accessed the network, what actions were performed and when they occurred.
### Syslog
A standard protocol used for *sending log messages and events* across multiple networks. It uses *centralized log management*. This means log from multiple devices are collected and stored in a central location/ repository. Syslogs make it easy to *analyze logs from different systems for correlations between them.*
## Logging  Levels
Network devices creating logs organize them into levels *based on the severity of certain events*. Common levels range from `INFO` > `WARNING` > `ERROR` > to `CRITICAL`. These levels can be configured to try to help security professionals prioritize and respond to events on the network.
## Log Reviews
Log reviews should be done *regularly* and can also be used for troubleshooting pop up issues. In security, reviewing logs for abnormal or suspicious activity can help prevent incidences, or identify on-going threats.

> [!Resources]
> - Internship learning material


