README.md, before:

# Obsidian Notes
## This is a public repo of my notes using [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/).
> [!NOTE]
> Any note page with the word `Init.` at the top signifies notes which I plan to fill in later, or which I've started writing, but haven't finished.
> Additionally, you will see an `aliases` box at the top of some note pages. This is an Obsidian feature that allows for quick and easy cross-linking of other note pages within the vault (repo/ directory).
### Viewing this Repo:
The best way to view this collection of notes is with the Obsidian desktop app. The app shows connections, links between topics, and other formatting which can't be appreciated in the markdown alone.

Cloning it down into an Obsidian vault also means all of the internal links will work. I've done my best to make the links work in GitHub as well but there are likely some stragglers which are still broken.

<picture>

<img src=cybersecurity/cybersecurity-pics/fast-flux-README-pic.png width="400">

</picture>
<br>

> This is how my notes on [Fast Flux](cybersecurity/TTPs/c2/fast-flux.md) will look on Obsidian Desktop.

If you prefer to browse my notes w/o the help of Obsidian, just know that some markdown formatting will not make sense and will make the notes harder to read.

This repo is for my organization and reference but can be viewed by the public. Feel free to use these notes for your own reference or education, however, I cannot guarantee their accuracy. Thanks! :)
## P.S. PNPT & OSCP Study Guides
The notes I took while studying for the PNPT and OSCP are in their respective directories (see [PNPT](PNPT/README.md) and [OSCP](OSCP/README.md)). Again, because these notes are originally from my Obsidian vault, some links may be broken (in the PNPT repo specifically)!
## P.P.S. Contributing
If you find flaws and/or misinformation in topic notes you'd like me to correct, feel free to make a branch w/ your changes and submit a pull request so I can review them! I want these notes to be accurate and because I'm learning so much so quickly, I'm sure there are notes which need fixing!
## P.P.P.S. Pictures
Each directory has a `/<dir-name>-pics` sub-directory which holds all of the images embedded into notes in the directory. I've named them based on the notepage they're embedded in incremented by 1 for each image (in the same note page). For instance, my notes on [buffer overflow](cybersecurity/TTPs/exploitation/binary-exploitation/buffer-overflow.md) include 13 pictures. So the [9th picture](cybersecurity/cybersecurity-pics/buffer-overflow-9.png) is saved as `/cybersecurity/cybersecurity-pics/buffer-overflow-9.png`.

> P.P.P.P.S. the commit history has been wiped due to insecure configuration. This repo was created in December '22

Commit message:

Add another post script to README

README.md, after:

# Obsidian Notes
## This is a public repo of my notes using [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/).
> [!NOTE]
> Any note page with the word `Init.` at the top signifies notes which I plan to fill in later, or which I've started writing, but haven't finished.
> Additionally, you will see an `aliases` box at the top of some note pages. This is an Obsidian feature that allows for quick and easy cross-linking of other note pages within the vault (repo/ directory).
### Viewing this Repo:
The best way to view this collection of notes is with the Obsidian desktop app. The app shows connections, links between topics, and other formatting which can't be appreciated in the markdown alone.

Cloning it down into an Obsidian vault also means all of the internal links will work. I've done my best to make the links work in GitHub as well but there are likely some stragglers which are still broken.

<picture>

<img src=cybersecurity/cybersecurity-pics/fast-flux-README-pic.png width="400">

</picture>
<br>

> This is how my notes on [Fast Flux](cybersecurity/TTPs/c2/fast-flux.md) will look on Obsidian Desktop.

If you prefer to browse my notes w/o the help of Obsidian, just know that some markdown formatting will not make sense and will make the notes harder to read.

This repo is for my organization and reference but can be viewed by the public. Feel free to use these notes for your own reference or education, however, I cannot guarantee their accuracy. Thanks! :)
## P.S. PNPT & OSCP Study Guides
The notes I took while studying for the PNPT and OSCP are in their respective directories (see [PNPT](PNPT/README.md) and [OSCP](OSCP/README.md)). Again, because these notes are originally from my Obsidian vault, some links may be broken (in the PNPT repo specifically)!
## P.P.S. Contributing
If you find flaws and/or misinformation in topic notes you'd like me to correct, feel free to make a branch w/ your changes and submit a pull request so I can review them! I want these notes to be accurate and because I'm learning so much so quickly, I'm sure there are notes which need fixing!
## P.P.P.S. Pictures
Each directory has a `/<dir-name>-pics` sub-directory which holds all of the images embedded into notes in the directory. I've named them based on the notepage they're embedded in incremented by 1 for each image (in the same note page). For instance, my notes on [buffer overflow](cybersecurity/TTPs/exploitation/binary-exploitation/buffer-overflow.md) include 13 pictures. So the [9th picture](cybersecurity/cybersecurity-pics/buffer-overflow-9.png) is saved as `/cybersecurity/cybersecurity-pics/buffer-overflow-9.png`.
## P.P.P.P.S. Note Previews
If viewing on GitHub, you may occasionally see something like "[See my notes on Windows enumeration](computers/windows/enumeration.md)" -- This usually means that I'm using Obsidian to [embed another note file](https://help.obsidian.md/embeds) directly into the note page. It's nice on Obsidian because it looks like this:
![](OSCP/oscp-pics/README-2.png)

On GitHub, however, it just looks like a link is embedded w/i the [LDAP-ADSI](OSCP/AD/manual-enumeration/LDAP-ADSI.md) notes. Because of that, I try to name the link something like "see my notes on LDAP ADsPath" so anyone ready on GitHub knows there is some additional content to reference.

> P.P.P.P.P.S. the commit history has been wiped due to insecure configuration. This repo was created in December '22
