cybersecurity/THM/SOC-analyst.md, before:


# Security Analyst

## Junior SOC Analyst:
Junior SOC Analysts/ Tier 1 SOC analysts are responsible for #triage
### Responsibilities:
- monitor and investigate security alerts
- configure and manage security tools
- develope/ implement basic #IDS (intrustion detection system) signatures
- participate in SOC working groups/ meetings
- create tickets and escelate security incidents to #tier-2 / team lead

## Required Qualifications:
- 0-2 years security experience
- basic networking
- basic understanding of OSs
- scripting/ programming skills

#### Certifications:
- #CompTIA-Sec

## Preparation and Prevention:
- stay informed of current cybersecurity thretes
	- gathering intelligence data on latest threats & threat actors
		- #TTPs 
		- ex: good place to look for TTPs etc is [[CISA]]
- maintenance (updating firewalls, patching vulnerabilities, black-listing, etc.)

## Monitoring and Investigation:
#SIEM (Security Information and Event Management) and #EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response) are tools which can be used to monitor suspicious and malicious network activity.
- alarms when intrusion is detected
- prioritizes alerts based on their level
- Investigation:
	- performing triage on ongoing alerts
	- exploring and trying to understand how an attack works
	- preventing bad things from happpening if possible

Commit message:

Re-organise directories, fix links, syntax, etc.

cybersecurity/THM/SOC-analyst.md, after:


# Security Analyst

## Junior SOC Analyst:
Junior SOC Analysts/ Tier 1 SOC analysts are responsible for #triage
### Responsibilities:
- monitor and investigate security alerts
- configure and manage security tools
- develop/ implement basic #IDS (intrusion detection system) signatures
- participate in SOC working groups/ meetings
- create tickets and escalate security incidents to #tier-2 / team lead

## Required Qualifications:
- 0-2 years security experience
- basic networking
- basic understanding of OSs
- scripting/ programming skills

#### Certifications:
- #CompTIA-Sec

## Preparation and Prevention:
- stay informed of current cybersecurity thretes
	- gathering intelligence data on latest threats & threat actors
		- #TTPs 
		- ex: good place to look for TTPs etc is [CISA](https://www.cisa.gov/)
- maintenance (updating firewalls, patching vulnerabilities, black-listing, etc.)

## Monitoring and Investigation:
#SIEM (Security Information and Event Management) and #EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response) are tools which can be used to monitor suspicious and malicious network activity.
- alarms when intrusion is detected
- prioritizes alerts based on their level
- Investigation:
	- performing triage on ongoing alerts
	- exploring and trying to understand how an attack works
	- preventing bad things from happening if possible

>[!Links]
>[Try Hack Me: SOC Analyst](https://tryhackme.com/room/jrsecanalystintrouxo)
