
# Go Programming Language
## Environment Variables
### $GOROOT
Should be set to the directory where go was installed. Do **NOT** set it to `<go-install-directory>/go/bin` because Golang will use `GOROOT` to set other environment variables such as `GOTOOLDIR`.

If you set `GOROOT` to `/go/bin` then your `GOTOOLDIR` will default to `.../go/bin/pkg/tool/...`. But this should really be set to `.../go/pkg/tool`.
### $GOPATH
### $GOTOOLDIR
Where Golang will go to search for tools it needs to run in your specific OS environment. **YOU SHOULD NOT SET IT YOURSELF**, the golang env will set it for you (probably based on `GOROOT`).

It should look something like: `.../go/pkg/tool/linux_amd64` (if you're coding in a linux environment).
## Project Structure
### `go.mod`
Should be in the root of the project. Defines the name of the project module, the go version used, and and 'requirements' like external modules.
```go
module netpuppy

go 1.22.1
```
### `go.sum`
The following is from GitHub Copilot. I'm putting it here as a placeholder until I can review and crosscheck the info (which I don't have time for right now).

The original question was 'what is a go.sum file for?'
> The `go.sum` file is automatically generated by Go for modules. It contains the expected cryptographic checksums of the content of specific module versions.
> 
> When you run `go mod download`, `go build`, `go test`, and other commands that might update the `go.mod` file or download new dependencies, Go will also update the `go.sum` file with the cryptographic hashes of every module version it downloads.
> 
> Later, when you run `go build` or `go test`, Go will check the `go.sum` file to ensure that it's using the exact same version of the module dependencies that you used the last time you ran `go mod download` or `go build`. If the `go.sum` file has changed, Go will refuse to build your program, because this might mean that an attacker has tampered with your dependencies.
> 
> In summary, the `go.sum` file is used to ensure the integrity of your module dependencies. It's a good idea to commit the `go.sum` file to your version control system.
